---


---

<h3 id="implicit-beliefs">Implicit Beliefs</h3>
<p>What are these…</p>
<p>Why important:<br>
Implicit beliefs drive or influence how one interprets, engages with, and ultimately remembers learning tasks. A lesson can be ‘perfect’ in terms of it’s cognitive structure, timed exactly to meet existing student knowledge and needs, but if it does not agree with an implicit belief, a student will gain less than the optimal level (achieve lower returns).</p>
<p>In education, students bring into your classroom many beliefs about the world. Who the best athlete or singer is, what the weather is like in Siberia, the best way to keep up with the Kardashians, etc. These are easy for us to notice, but not too relevant to education (although they make great motivational examples). But students also bring with them a series of implicit beliefs about learning, education, and where they fit into the mix.</p>
<p>There are others, as well, such as beliefs about belonging, beliefs about the nature of knowledge, etc. Though these are often couched in general terms, so maybe making them more self-theory (first-person) could be a cool thing to do.</p>
<h4 id="fear-of-failure">Fear of Failure:</h4>
<p>So far, mired in athletics research, but seems perfrect with Dweck.</p>
<h4 id="intelligence-theories">Intelligence Theories:</h4>
<p>entity theory vs. incremental (implicit theories of intelligence)</p>
<h4 id="need-for-cognition">Need for Cognition:</h4>
<p>Thinking is Fun / Thinking is Burdensome: NFC, desire for ease (desirable difficulties and NFC research?)</p>
<h4 id="need-for-closure">Need for Closure:</h4>
<p>Comfort with Uncertainty: Need for Closure; need for answer, clarity vs. comfort with ambiguity, shades. relates to need for single solution (versus complex) or are they separate? Includes need for simple decision (versus complex) Does fear of uncertainty come into play here?</p>
<h2 id="how-much-do-these-overlap-with-fear-in-general-could-you-call-this-a-fear-index-in-education-and-simply-reframe-each-as-a-type-of-fear-or-maladaptive-behavior">How much do these overlap with fear, in general? Could you call this a fear index in education and simply reframe each as a type of fear or maladaptive behavior?</h2>
<h4 id="desire-for-ease">Desire for Ease?:</h4>
<p>Probably not fear based, more just cognitive ease / don’t want to work too hard (could be tied to boredom or disinterest, as well)</p>
<h4 id="implicit-theories-of-the-education-system">Implicit Theories of the Education System:</h4>
<p>What is the point of school? (job, learn, understand the world? something i have to do? - more like a mix of these, where fall on each / what percentage of each are you feeling right now? No scale that I know of, but might exist.</p>
<h4 id="epistemological-beliefs">Epistemological Beliefs:</h4>
<p>Beliefs about the nature of learning or knowledge. What is learning? What is knowledge? Often Need for Cognition and Need for Closure are lumped in here.</p>

