---


---

<h2 id="are-you-gritty">Are You Gritty?</h2>
<p>Is perseverance simply an outcome of something you worked on? Is it a thing measured at the end of a job well done, or a failed attempt? Or is perseverance something bigger, a predictor of outcomes, a trait someone can have that goes over and above other measures of ‘talent’, abilities, or ‘gifts’?</p>
<p>Does the persistence of effort (not at a single point in time, but over time) matter when completing a task? Does maintaining interest consistently towards a single purpose help one finish a job? Intuitively, you would likely say yes, of course it does. But, while one can easily say that in a particular instance these components, perseverance in these instances, were important, are some people more likely to persevere and show passion for long-term goals on a variety of tasks across their lives than others? Angela Duckworth and her colleagues think so.</p>
<p>The grit scale, a deceptively simple 8 question assessment, correlates strongly with academic success (cite), … spelling bee champions, ivy league students, West Point cadets, those who have found success in fields that require significant investment of time, sweat, and endurance when the goal is far off (a single competition possibly years in the future, a prestigious job many years away) show high levels grit, as measured by the scale.</p>
<p>But, what can this scale tell us? Yes, people who are already in prestigious universities likely worked very hard to get there, clearly showing signs of grit. But is this single trait all that was required? Or is it more complicated? Likely grit is an important component to academic success and success in anything that takes a significant amount of time to accomplish. However, along with grit must come the ability to judge which tasks are important (and which can be neglected), which areas one needs to improve on (and which are already satisfactory or not necessary for one’s goals), etc. Accurate metacognition, self-awareness, and an ability to perceive the world as it truly is, or near to it, are important components that go along with grit. So, as with many psychological measures, it is likely grit + ____ that is important (or ____ + grit). In other words, grit plus a few other traits or variables are what one truly needs to achieve their goals in education and life.</p>
<p>The grit scale, originally developed by Duckworth, Peterson, Matthews, and Kelly (2007) as a 12-item scale, assesses perseverance and passion for long-term goals. Those scoring high on this single scale, trait-level measure, are more likely to stay the course, pursuing goals with a consistency of interest and effort, even when positive feedback is not present (Duckworth &amp; Quinn, 2009). Shortened to 8-items in 2009, the assessment uses self-reported answers on questions such as: “ I finish whatever I begin.” and “Setbacks don’t discourage me.” Participants assess themselves on a Likert scale ranging from 1=’not at all like me’ to 5=’very much like me’. Cronbach’s alpha is often reported above or near .80 (Duckworth, et al., 2007, Duckworth &amp; Quinn, 2009).</p>

